If the human brain is a physical system that can think, Uh, is
there any reason to suppose that some other system Shouldn't be capable of doing
likewise, and I see My answer is absolutely No reason why not Alright I don't
see anything unique that sets the human brain I think the question really It
becomes metaphysical I think The question, what's lurking behind or beneath the
surface of this whole debate is, do we feel that the human mind can be
adequately accounted for by the familiar laws of physics and no more? Or does
the phenomenon of mind require something extra, some life force, some mystical
agency, and soul, call it what you like? and depending how we answer that
question I think that will shape our answer to the artificial intelligence issue
personally I feel that the human mind requires nothing extra to account for with
that being so there's no reason why an equally complex system that happened to
have come from some other origin the natural evolution for example in other
words having been conceived and built by human beings shouldn't be capable of
the same thing trading on different design parameters in it in other words a
system that's designed to be good in a particular area is usually pretty bad in
others a high-level interceptor jet has got excellent speed and maneuverability
but it's not much good for hauling freight and the school bus is pretty good for
getting kids to school but it won't win many trophies on a racing circuit.
Blindlides, whatever you're designing for, you try and trade off things so that
the, the specification is maximized towards getting done the things that you
want the system to to do and the penalties that you pay are paid in areas that
you don't want it to do. Some systems that are designed to be a compromise, and
they're designed to do a wide range of things moderately well, although I
suppose you could argue that they excel in versatility. Probably the most
versatile system that we know is the human brain. It can do pretty well anything
to a degree. And we're never satisfied with its performance in any one area, so
we're continually building things like microscopes and telescopes and
calculating machines to improve its scope. And each one of those additional
devices will excel the human brain by many orders of magnitude in its own field
of specialty and be absolutely useless for anything else.
All right, I believe Daryl has a few questions. Yeah, so the point I was leading
up to is that the human brain needs to be specialized in versatility, and it
might well be that one of nature's basic trade-offs is that thinking big and
thinking small are mutually exclusive. When you lift your arm to comb your hair,
it requires the coordinated action of about 40 separate muscles. Now if you had
to consciously monitor every step of that sequence to lift your arm you wouldn't
get much else done. You certainly wouldn't build many cities or compose many
symphonies or already be very much of a high-level intelligent being at all. And
it seems pretty inescapable that in the course of evolution, what actually
happens in practice is when you think lift your arm one high level command
triggers off a whole sequence of micro-instructions that are micro-coded into
the nervous system which is analogous to many computer operations today and you
just think one thought consciously and the rest just takes place without any
further intervention on your part and it's easy to see the survival value of a
process like that and why it would be reinforced in the process of evolution. So
that the level at which the human brain is mechanical... A lot of arguments
against artificial intelligence that I've heard, they make the point that a
computer is deterministic, that its circuits function exactly the way they're
programmed mechanically, and they don't have any variability or whimsical
behavior built into them. But at the basic hardware level, this is true of the
human brain also. The basic neuron of the brain is every bit as mechanical as an
integrated circuit chip. If the sum of the inputs that are applied to it exceed
a certain threshold, it will fire. And if they don't, it won't. The variability
becomes manifest through the complexity of the organization at a far higher
level. software if you will. We as thinking conscious totalities we manipulate
abstract symbols that represent the world that we perceive and the world we live
in such as places, people, emotions and things. We are not consciously aware of
the mechanically precise hardware level of operation of our brains in other
words our neurons or even that we have any. where as it were shut off from that
level of operation and the interesting thought is that if we ever built a system
that was capable of emulating the human brain in all its variety of versatility
we might find that one of the trade-offs that it pays for being that versatile
and that general is that it gets shut off from its hardware level too and it
can't calculate it can't remember word for word a conversation it had last week
and perhaps if it wanted to calculate Pi to a couple of thousand decimal places
it would have to build itself a computer or buy one and that's not a good reason
for imagining that maybe we wouldn't call it a computer anymore perhaps we
should call it a biologically reproduced artificial intelligence and since
computer people delighted acronyms that would soon be short to brain,
which would describe it pretty well.
You planned that, didn't you?
I wrote it somewhere in an article a while ago. All right. Here are some short
questions which we may use as inserts. I'll try and keep the answers a little
shorter, too. No, that's okay.
Which novel is your best-selling novel? inherit the stars because it's been on
sale the longest and being translated into the most languages so it is sold the
most copies that the the writers the
the the more
recent ones are selling at a far faster right than inherit the stars did when it
was first released, if that makes sense.
Do you think you could write a fantasy story?
Yeah, but I don't know if it would be what a lot of people have in mind when
they use the word fantasy. I've discussed this with a number of editors.
I suppose we ought to try and agree on the definition of fantasy. Firstly, I
would offer you my interpretation of fantasy would be
stories setting times or places in which the laws of cause and effect don't work
the way they do in the universe we know. They're not simple extrapolations from
the laws we know.
or something akin to magic. Phenomena happen which to us would be inexplicable
by our laws of physics and cause and effect, and we would have to describe it as
magic. Is that a reasonably acceptable definition of what fantasy is? I believe
so. Yeah, I would say that. yeah if we if we're going to ride in that realm i i
would i would submit that surely the opportunities for well let's give the
science fiction firstly um it's the term itself is new but the the purpose it
serves and the way it serves it is not really people from the beginnings of
history has had a a need or or have got
enjoyment from escapism from escaping for a while out of their own humdrum lives
their own hunt-drawn places and going to places new and places different. And
writers have enjoyed, or storytellers have been able to use, stretch their
imagination and exercise their creativity if they were able to break out of the
limitations that are imposed by geography and history as they are. and the
conventions and roars of society as they happen to exist. In other words, you
can do so much more if you... Never mind the constraints of how things are.
Let's imagine they might be somewhere else. And in centuries gone by when the
world was only partly explored, it was easy to do this by simply inventing
places. I think Gulliver's travels or the Arabian Nights or it's an island in
the Pacific or an unexplored part of South America. But, of course, in these
days, with the whole world mapped and surveyed by satellites, you really can't
do that credibly. And the only dimensions left in which the writer can create
new worlds and shed those constraints are the dimensions of space and time,
which really gives us science fiction. And if we agree on that, I then suggest
that the fantasy writer goes one step further. The fantasy writer not only
discards the constraints of history and geography and society as they have, as
they exist in the real world, the fantasy writer also discards the constraints
of the laws of physics as they operate in the real world. And my conclusion from
that would be that if the opportunity for originality creativity imagination to
its limit exist anywhere they should surely exist in the field of fantasy the
opportunities for true originality are greater in no other branch of literature
the air found it rather disappointing or rather surprising yet time and time and
time again we see the same symbols of people in clothes and medieval hats that
went out of style here hundreds of years ago, living in thatch cottages and
waving swords around. It seems to me that that opportunity is not being
exploited at all, in a lot of cases anyway.
A number of editors have asked me to write fantasy, and I said, well, I'll think
about it. But if I did, I think I would try and use that opportunity
I believe if you did write a fantasy novel, it would be a very... it would be a
different type than a lot of fantasy writers are used to reading. Yeah, I think
it would. Whether that would be popular or not, I
don't know. And if I were asked at this stage, what would it be about? The only
answer is I haven't the faintest idea, because I haven't thought about it. But
if I did sit down and seriously think about doing something in that area, it
would be with the considerations that I've just outlined, taken into account.
What might come out of it, goodness only knows. If it was that obvious, I
suppose it wouldn't be fantasy. Right.
has anybody approached you about movie rights to any of your novels so far yeah
we've talked to a number of companies to date and nothing's come out of it any
particular story any story in particular Inherit the Stars Two Faces mainly I'd
love to see Inherit the Stars so with regard to the future, no, it's maybe I
think it's the only safe thing to say at this stage. We don't take that as an
indication that anything is positively moving on that front at this point in
time as far as I'm aware it is. I was just curious, this won't be part of the
show, this just goes in our information file. We keep all the tapes that we
tape, the master tapes are unedited. We copy them off on a copy tapes and edit
those and these are kept interview time now is this just chit chat this is just
chit chat all right it's just chit chat yeah erwin allen was uh you know the guy
who made um i think the poseidon adventure and the towering interno and uh and
uh a lot of the uh disaster movies was about a year ago was more recently than
that some time ago was was getting quite interested in uh two faces of tomorrow
but uh i think in the end he decided not to go ahead. But I think, it's life.
Yeah. My own impression is, and this is, of course, my own opinion, is Irwin
Allen has never been able to handle science fiction. He has never really got a
grasp of it. Well, I haven't been very impressed if we're not on, if we're not
being broadcast, if this is just between us. I'm not very impressed by many
science fiction movies to be honest. Yeah. Just out of curiosity, which one,
which out of the science fiction movies, which ones would you find impressive?
Which ones? Yeah. I missed the question. Which ones do I like? Which ones would
you think would be a good science fiction movie? Out of the books? No, out of
the movies. What do you think would be a good science fiction movie? Which
movies were good? Yes. I haven't seen many of them, mainly, because I don't like
the ones I did see. I remember being very impressed
by 2001.
bearing in mind that it came out sometime around the mid 60s and I thought that
the technical detail and the authenticity was uh exceptional and I was on the
edge of my feet looking forward to a really you know the whole thing to develop
into a really crisp story with a I must confess I I was a little let down I I
didn't understand the ending I don't know what happened. We went into this
abstract, symbolic kind of thing, and it didn't mean anything to me. I had
dinner one night with Arthur Clarke, and I said, Arthur, what did the ending to
2001 mean? And he said, I don't know. Kubrick and the various music people
wanted to end it one way, and somebody wanted to end it another way. And Arthur
said he just walked away and left them to it, and he never understood what they
ended up with either. So I think that kind of accounts or puts to rest a lot of
the very, very ingenious interpretations that I've listened to from numerous
people. I hadn't heard that story before. I'm going to remember that one. In
fact, it's really no secret, because I told Arthur this, that 2001 was one of
the factors that inspired me to write Inherit the Stars. I love the idea of
something being found, a mystery, being uncovered in the course of lunar
exploration that was sufficiently intriguing to motivate a lot of scientists
into unraveling it. It seemed a good opportunity to set the scientific detective
story that I wanted to write. Let's have the detective story or the mystery that
the detectives are trying to solve hinge around something that's turned up on
the moon. Well, dead bodies are always pretty I'm not usually good for detective
stories. It ought to be a more interesting dead body than the standard detective
thriller, so let's make it 50,000 years old and human, which raises the whole,
opens up the whole bag of worms, and let's just see how they unravel that. And I
wanted the ending to be, you know, a bit of a twist, a bit of a surprise, but
nevertheless plausible and rational within the context of the story. I didn't
want to bring in mystical agencies or
strange laws of physics or anything like this to hold it together. And you did
what every good mystery writer does is give the reader enough information to
solve the mystery himself if he's got the perception to do it. I think so. I
think that's honest fiction too. I think phony suspense. cheating and holding
back information from the reader. I don't think that's good fiction. I think
that writers who do that because they're trying to create an atmosphere of
mystery and make the reader curious, I don't think that's a fair way of going
about it. I think in fairness, as a courtesy to the reader, the reader should
know as much as the characters know. and i think it's kind of weak where you
know the character knows something and the writer won't tell you what it is he's
almost playing games with the reader you know i know something you don't know
that's not fair i think that as information becomes available to the characters
so the reader should become aware of it so the reader has the same opportunity
as the character to figure it out and the suspense and the reader's curiosity
should be aroused by more skillful methods than simply depriving them of
information and keeping them guessing well, of teasing them. Yes they should be
kept guessing but not by by being cheated
yeah I may have to retract my statement here about this not being used that was
such an extraordinarily good answer we may incorporate that into a future
program oh sure yeah if you want to use that that's fine it's just when we were
mentioning names like Arthur Clarke and Irwin Allen I think if we're going out in
public I'd rather just edit those out oh yeah that's no problem the thing on
mystery writing because we're going to eventually produce a program on science
fiction detective stories because there aren't a whole lot of them. And since
we'll have this on our information tape, if we ever do, we'll call you up and
tell you that we're doing it and then we'll send you a copy tape of it. Well, I
trust your integrity. But if we're talking about personal things that were said
over lunch in confidence, I prefer not to go complicated. No, we wouldn't do
that. Okay. Ah.
Well, I've exhausted my supply of questions.
Just personally, I happen to enjoy your work very, very much. Thank you. In
fact, one of the things that, oh yeah, our students in our science fiction class
that we're teaching this semester at the college are reading your novel, Inherit
the Stars, as one of the novels for the class. I'm glad to hear it. And this
radio show will be aired the weekend before they meet in class, so they'll be
hearing these conversations before we talk about it in class. It just so happens
that it works out that way. Well, you can tell them if they enjoy it and they
like the gentle giants, then there's a third one in the pipeline and it'll be
out in June. Yeah. Now, yeah, we've remarked that on some instances after
reading some of your stuff, I wonder if we just can't go out to Radio Shack and
buy enough parts to build some of those things. I get a lot of letters like
that. Which I think is rewarding.
Your comment on learning is one that appears frequently as well. That people do
seem to find this kind of fiction stimulating and that it gives them the urge to
want to get up and get out and do something meaningful. Well, surely that's a
good thing. I think just my own observation would be that we're so bombarded by
war and things that are going wrong and things don't work out. And yet in your
novels you show a society that if you work at it, things can work out. I think
that's what I'm trying to say. I think it could. I think it can. It doesn't
guarantee that it will. I think there is a borderline between optimism and naive
innocence. I think it's kind of healthily optimistic to recognize that we, I
think we have it in our future lives entirely in our own hands. But it's not a
new observation these days to look out across the size of the universe we live
in. And even really the pictures that we see through the Palomo telescope and
things like that really don't convey the vastness. Our own galaxy contains
something like a couple of hundred billion stars, I believe. It's 100,000 light
-years in diameter. Light would take 100,000 years to cross just our galaxy. And
that sounds what it is, an unimaginable distance. And yet, that galaxy, there
are more galaxies than anybody can count, let alone stars. The number of
galaxies is just beyond counting. And the best analogy that modern science can
come up with of the universe is that of a gas of galaxy molecules. imagine the
number of molecules
swirling around in the room that you're sitting in and imagine every one of
those is a galaxy and every one of those galaxies contains say 100 billion stars
and you happen to be on a little ball of mud that's attached to one of them it
ain't much and I don't really feel anything intimidating about this yeah we're
insignificant in terms of the universe but looked at in another way it is very
exhilarating and very liberating because what it really says is that we are not
cogs in a clockwork machine that somebody has programmed the rules for that
we're doomed or not depending on somebody else's whim that we are a totally self
-sufficient,
self-determining species. And the limits to expansion and growth around us
potentially are limitless. There are no limits, I believe, to how far and how
high the human species can expand, both in terms of how far it can travel and
the things it can achieve and I think it's entirely up to us.
And I think it's an exercise in self-deception to rely on big brothers in the
sky or magical forces to solve our problems for us or make our problems go away,
they won't. The realisation that we have the ability and the opportunity to do
it, I find a very exciting one. But if we make a mess of it and there's no
guarantee that we won't, there's certainly no doubt that the universe won't miss
us, if that one little speck of dust vanishes, the rest of the gas of the
galaxies aren't even going to see the difference. So it really is entirely up to
us.
and we hear a lot of talk about freedom these days and of course freedom and
responsibility are different sides of the same coin if you are totally free to
determine your course of action and nobody places any constraints on you then by
the same token you are responsible for the consequences of those actions and I
think we've got that coin We're, I think we are totally free to do anything we
choose. There are no constraints, there are no limits. I think we have the
potential. We also have the responsibility to ourselves, and I think that's the
thing that, as a race we need to wake up to and acknowledge because with the,
with the levels of power that we're beginning to harness and play with, it's
becoming a very serious issue. i don't think the the solution is to run away
from the responsibility and go back to playing with windmills or wood burning
stoves or uh primitive levels of existence as some people would advocate that we
do i think that's an abdication i think we need to realize that um So, the next
rung up from the ladder of evolution that we're on requires
us to comprehend
those forces, that we're beginning to understand and learn how to use them
responsibly.
And I think all the... you mentioned war a little while ago.
we, yes, we have the potential to wipe ourselves out and I think we often, on
the other side of the coin, we also have the ability to solve the problems that
a war would otherwise be fought over. It doesn't make sense to me to talk about
fighting a global war over a little bit of oil under the desert, a few metals
that minerals or in South Africa or something like that because the little
pockets of energy that happen to be trapped around the surface of this planet
are just our investment capital for starting the business. No business has to
run forever on it's investment capital. That's just your startup capital, you
invest that and make the profit to pay you away as your business grows and
expand. And I think that's true with energy and the other resources too. I think
resources only finite within the context of a given level of technology. And
when you go through a... when civilization goes through a phase change into the
higher level of technology, the level of the resources that were previously
finite seems to be relevant, they don't matter anymore economies in history
depended on animal power and slave of horses how much would you could carry and
limited the extent to which earlier economies could be stretched they totally
irrelevant in the context of today's high technology economy we worry about oil
and gas and things like yes they're finite and yes they won't last forever i
don't think it matters because because we're likely to, or we could be, into
technologies far more advanced in which fossil fuels are simply irrelevant. It's
just not worth the cost or the messing around and drilling them out the ground
anymore. I think that could happen long before they run out. So I don't
particularly see that as an area to get concerned over unless people become
trapped in the straitjacket of their own narrow, short-term thinking and believe
it's worth fighting the war over and I think it is. Again, it's not to say that
everybody will see it that way.
Yeah, I think lots of times, we probably end up being manipulated by the media
that we are bombarded with all the time. I miss that, Dave. Lots of times I
think we're manipulated by the media that we're bombarded with all the time.
Yeah, I'm sure a lot of this goes on And I'm not so sure that as much as it goes
on as people seem to think. That's what a lot of it does. I'm sure a lot of
vested interests tied up with stretching out existing technologies for a little
while longer. Yet, you know, a lot of money has been invested in, in refineries
and tankers and mining rights and drilling rights and that kind of thing. And
I'm sure it's in the interest of a lot of powerful lobbies to keep us using
those things for a while longer yet. I don't really see that as sinister or
unethical. I suppose it is in some ways, but it's a good business sense in other
ways. But taking the long-term view, I think that when the need gets acute
enough, then we'll solve the problem. I have no doubt we have the ability to do
it. I just hope that happens before anybody starts pressing buttons. Yeah, I
think it will, too. I think one of the best examples I can think of, I believe
it was Brazil, that converted all their cars, most of their gas-using cars to
alcohol. And Ford Motor Company is making the cars for them. And they did that.
Of course, they have a fairly efficient form of government, it's a dictatorship.
Yeah, I don't think it could work in it. You see, they're under a different
economic framework. It wouldn't work in the United States. As you say, they have
a stricter form of government. They have the lower wages and the,
well, I hesitate to use the word peasant because of its derogatory connotations.
But a lot of human labor goes into harvesting the cane and the biomass that
makes the alcohol and human labor that is cheap and freely available at low
wages. And you can sell it at the pumps for far less than you can sell it for in
this country. Where do you get your army of laborers to harvest the stuff here?
I think it's a very inefficient solution to the problem anyway. The value of
liquid fuels, of course, is that they provide permanent storage of energy and
that they are portable and highly concentrated. I think that our high-technology
know-how and our investment capital will be far better put into developing
nuclear processes flat out and using hydrogen based economy. Yeah, I was getting
something, and there's either Puppler or Mechanics or one of them that's
theoretical hydrogen powered cars. Sure. I think Lockheed are experimenting with
hydrogen-fuelled aircraft. Yeah, they are. And it burns clean, and I think there
are some problems. I don't... This may have changed, but something I read a
while ago I think that the storage efficiency in terms of the calories you store
per pound weight not as high as you get from gasoline but I would think with the
kind of development capital that they've been talking about up until recently
anyway about putting into converting coal and things like that to liquid is what
my opinion is a lot of nonsense I think this will probably prove the important
hydrogen fuel. A lot of people produce a lot of sums about to show you how much
energy you could get from this source or that source, but a very important
quantity that is not mentioned and recognized often enough is energy density.
The density at which you harness energy is a very important indicator of how
efficiently the efficiency of the processes you're getting smarter things done
more efficiently for instance as an example simple arithmetic would enable you
to calculate how much wood you need to burn to lift 300 people across the
Atlantic or to release the energy to lift 300 with people across the Atlantic.
But now it's like we're building a wood-burning 747. It won't work. It's just
not dense enough. You need jet fuel, a far more highly concentrated form to make
power plants small enough and light enough to lift themselves in a payload off
the ground. Now the density of nuclear processes is four millions of times
higher, and in the case of fusion theoretically trillions of times higher than
anything you could get from rupturing any chemical bond and i think it's a
primary energy source that that's the way we have to go and as for storing the
energy that that in a convenient form for example for transportation hydrogen
cyanide or liquid hydrogen or some form of hydrogen based compound which is
plentiful enough in the oceans.
And if you look beyond...
People think of nuclear session and nuclear fusion as just another way of
running a generating plant, but it's not. It is a kind of a breakthrough into a
whole realm of potential technologies that have the promise of streamlining and
cleaning up and generally compacting a whole range of industrial processes. For
example, at the temperature of nuclear plasmus, seawater cracks thermally into
hydrogen and oxygen far more efficiently than it can be achieved by
electrolysis. So as a byproduct of a nuclear process, So you have the
possibility of producing very, very cheap hydrogen on an industrial scale.
Desalternation of seawater is another possibility, which this year we've seen
the problems, the water problems associated with industry and agriculture.
Producing lots of fresh water and the energy to pump into places it's needed is
another whole area that is opened up when you can control energy of this volume
and this density. Primary metals extraction is another. At the temperature of
nuclear plasma, it tends 100 million degrees Kelvin. Any substance breaks down
into raw atomic nuclei with all the electrons stripped off. Every compound
breaks up into raw nuclei, which are highly charged, and can therefore be
separated very easily and very cheaply magnetically. and every ton of desert
rock sand construction debris contains traces of aluminum titanium, copper,
manganese you name it just about every important metal but it's just not
economic to try and extract it by conventional processes but at nuclear
temperatures that doesn't apply so you shovel desert sand through a magnetic
fusion plasma and then separate out the ions magnetically and who needs South
Africa for minerals get it all out of Arizona True, yeah you have the potential
perhaps for obsoleting overnight all of our cumbersome and expensive primary
metals processing and extraction industries and when you develop that technology
here, you can take it to the moon and that's how you build your space for all of
these new starships. Yeah, I hope so. Well, didn't we get carried away then?
Yeah, yeah, I enjoy getting carried away though. Yeah, yeah, hopefully I've been
talking with several writers and I really do enjoy it. It's very interesting to
talk with somebody whose book you've read.
And I'm beginning to get the writing bug myself. If I could only spell, I would
be alright. Well, like everything else, it's one of those things that nobody was
born knowing. Shakespeare had to learn to spell once and Einstein had to learn
to count. Yeah? Every expert at anything was a beginner sometimes. A point well
taken. Yeah. Do you see yourself getting out to California in the foreseeable
future? I don't know. Adel will be out there, and I believe he lives less than
100 miles from where you are. Well, you know, it goes without saying if any of
you find yourself over here with some time to spare, you're welcome to call and
see if we can get together or something. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'd really like that.
So consider that an open invitation, if any of you and your friends are ever
around this way. Well, if you ever get out toward Texas and in between nowhere
and nowhere at all, that's where we are. I drove through Texas three times in
November, always in the middle of the night it seems. Well if you drove through
the west part you didn't miss anything... there wasn't anything there to see. I
don't feel so bad about it then. Yeah. Actually, I take it back, the country out
here kinda grows on you. In fact, I think we probably have some of the most
beautiful sunsets they'll ever find anywhere because of the inversion layers and
stuff we get out of here. every color in the rainbows up in the sky. Well, there
you see, you're looking west, Adam, and we've got them right here. Yeah, oh,
yeah, it was dark a long time ago here.
Are you going to be at the World Con in Denver? I haven't decided yet. I don't
know. Maybe. Yeah, if you do go, we will be there, or at least if we have enough
money, we'll be there. I'm not a good thing or a bad thing but it happens to be
a fact I'm really not a regular convention goer
I go to some and thoroughly enjoy them I suppose probably the reason is this is
just a personal suspicion but I think I got into being a science fiction writer
from probably the diametrically the opposite direction from the majority of
science fiction writers I think it's more normal for young people to get
interested in science fiction, typically through friends at college or
university, who eventually persuade them to go to a convention. And in a lot of
cases, they find an environment they enjoy, they find stimulating people they
can relate to, and it becomes a habit. And some of those form the ambition to
want to contribute something to this genre themselves, so they start to write
something and submit it. Some of them are lucky and accepted, then they try a
novel, and ten years later there is another writer sitting up on the panel. And,
of course, during that process, going to conventions and being part of
conventions has already become part of a lifestyle that they've absorbed, and I
really never did. So I kind of go to them occasionally to see what's happening
and to see people and to be sociable, but I suppose it never started out as part
of a pattern of life in years way gone by. I've never been to a science fiction
convention. I guess you could call this a convention. They're having some sort
of Star Trek gizmo in Dallas, and I stopped by to see what it was, but I've
never really been to a science fiction convention per se. Well, I went to the
WorldCon Boston, the first year, which was... I enjoyed them. The World
Convention, well the one I've been to was that experience, it was pretty huge.
There were 6,000 people there in several hotels. And you can spend the whole
damn weekend looking for one person that you particularly wanted to meet. So
they can be pretty overpowering. I found the small local ones very enjoyable.
enjoyable to sort of one day with a hundred or two people and in
that one day you you see everybody have talked to everybody it they could be a
lot of fun yeah it is a group that gets together in New Mexico we're not too far
from New Mexico we measure things in Texas distances so it's nothing to go 400
miles to see somebody. You couldn't drive out in England without falling off the
edge. Goosh into the water and into the channel on the other. But people out
here don't think anything going to Dallas to go shopping. Don't even think twice
about it. And how far is Dallas? 380 miles. Good heavens. Of course, most of the
time they fly up there. Texas has its own airline. Texas is a strange and
wonderful place. But you can fly up to Dallas and back for 50 bucks, so people
just... Well, I'm reaching the point where if I have to get in the car, it's a
long way. One of the big attractions of moving to the town I'm living in now
is... it's kind of one of those quite old-fashioned, friendly town. About 20,000
30,000 people, maybe, but the sidewalks are busy with people and shops that are
side by side, and the people stop and talk to you. And you can walk anywhere. It
isn't like, I found Orlando was a little like a miniature Los Angeles. it was
like an airport with houses on and you couldn't do anything without getting in
the car and this is one of the things i like this country that's why i came to
live here but one of the aspects of a lot of american cities that i i haven't
got used to and don't think i ever will is having to get in a car to do anything
and it is nice here i think i think 80 percent of the places i want to go i
could just flip a jacket on and walk uh because we live in the town center
Yeah. Our society is built around the car.
It really is.
I guess that's probably okay if you grew up with it.
It's kind of harder to get used to if you didn't.
If I grew up in the center of London.
You can walk anywhere you want to go.
And if you don't want to walk there's lots of buses and lots of two subways.
Most people didn't own a car.
I never did till I moved out of London.
I hear people...
One person may own a couple cars. One person may buy
himself two or three cars just to keep them busy. Yeah not anymore, they're too
expensive.